.TH WS-RUN-SENSORS 1 "January 2026" "ws-node 1.4.1" "WildlifeSystems Commands"
.SH NAME
ws-run-sensors \- run sensor data collection for WildlifeSystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ws-run-sensors
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ws-run-sensors
collects data from sensors attached to WildlifeSystems nodes. It reads
configuration from
.I /etc/ws/sensors.conf
and manages sensor hardware interfaces.
.PP
This command is typically run by a systemd timer (ws-sensors.timer) rather than
invoked directly.
.SH ACTIONS
The following actions can be configured in the
.I run
array of the configuration file:
.TP
.B sensor-read
Read data from a sensor. Requires
.I sensor
and
.I sensor_type
fields. The result is stored internally for use by subsequent actions.
The deprecated name
.B sensor_read
is still accepted but will emit a warning.
.TP
.B process-data
Process the most recent sensor data. If a
.I script
field is provided, the sensor data is piped through the script and the result
replaces the stored sensor data. If no script is specified, the data is passed
through unchanged. This action is typically placed between
.B sensor-read
and
.B upload-delete
to transform or enrich data before output.
.TP
.B sleep
Pause execution for the number of seconds given by the
.I duration
field.
.TP
.B upload-delete
Output the stored sensor data using the specified
.I method
(either
.B file
or
.B script
).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/ws/sensors.conf
JSON configuration file for sensor collection.
.TP
.I /var/log/ws-run-sensors.log
Standard output log file.
.TP
.I /var/log/ws-run-sensors-error.log
Error log file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ws-upload (1),
.BR ws-heartbeat (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Ed Baker <ed@ebaker.me.uk>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024-2026 Ed Baker.
License GPLv2+: GNU GPL version 2 or later.
